Walking out of the Hunter Lounge at midnight, slightly drunk, ephemerally happy, you suddenly encounter pale white tombstones leaning against the wind. 
You’re in the grip of those transient emotions of university life - the temporary elation of receiving your assignment back, the disappointment of your exams, the bittersweet memories of the girl you kissed and never saw again. The independence and the responsibility, the freedoms and the limitations of living life away from home for the first time, tasting independence. You are always surprised by the conjunction of the university and the graveyard.
You encounter these graves, these concrete bunkers of the dead who need never fear no more, who feel nothing, who have no responsibilities. They will never leave this place that we regard as nothing more than a staging-ground for greater things.

Maybe I’m drawing too many conclusions from this coincidental juxtaposition, and from this imagined you, a cipher for myself. One could probably say the same thing about the city below the university, the bright lights and shining towers that draw us at night. 
I have a friend, S, who argues sometimes that this is our last freedom from responsibility, that we should seize the limited freedom we have to drink and fuck and be <em>alive</em> while we can, before we enter the towers which stand over the grey harbour like the headstones of giants or of gods. His pale, debauched face lights up while he talks, and you forget all the flaws and deficiencies in him, his red hair and his flat small eyes, and fall in love with his vision of self-destructing freedom. I imagine being like a moth, entering the flickering light of a candle and dying in ecstacy.

What do the dead spectators think?  They lived and breathed as we did; we shall die as they did, and be buried in graveyards further from home, on flat land with shiny black headstones.
Maybe they applaud; maybe they weep for lost memories; maybe they feel nothing, for they are the dead and we are the living.
I sometimes feel as if we are merely living their experiences again as they watch us from their concrete homes. They thought that they had fallen in love too, I imagine, and were excited by all the knowledge and potential, and filled their notebooks with scrawls in blue pen, and lay down in the sun to study, and drank too much, and laughed too loud, and wore scarves that fluttered in the wind.

I thought that I had fallen in love here. She thought so, too. I suspect we still both half-believe it, but it’s not love. It’s a passing fancy, a pleasant thing, but not to be taken too seriously; not to be carved on gravestones.
She’s a girl, and I’m a boy, and we’re young. I’m tall and broad-shouldered, and she smiles like the sun. We won’t be anything special, we’re nothing that hasn’t been before, but we’re happy. 

We met in the graveyard, oddly enough. It’s a quiet place, and a calm one. I’d intended to study, but I was reading the gravestones, catching myself up in the details of other people’s lives, wondering if they met here in the university, if they sailed here from some other place, if they loved one another.
While I was reading the stones, the wind picked up my loose papers and set a page spinning through the air towards the path below.
She caught it, and she smiled at me. She looked at the page, said she studied history as well. She asked a question that we both knew concealed another meaning.
I laughed in reply, and said that though I had hardly a clue, I’d help her if I could.
 She sits next to me at lectures now, and in the evenings we study together. We’re at that stage where neither of us is quite brave enough to make the next step, but we know that it’s about to happen. I almost prefer it this way, in this waiting state of almost-velleity.
I read my notes aloud to her, to remember them, and she puts down her pen to listen.
<em>…Gibbon says that the idea of the decline of the empire is contained within its rise, that they are a natural corollary…</em>

I saw her this morning, on the wooden bridge between Te Papa and the ferry terminal. She had shopping bags in her hand, and when she saw me she smiled with genuine pleasure.
Behind her, I saw a boat heading inside the encircling arm of the harbour.
Its wind-ragged sails reminded me of the translucent wings of a moth. As she passed, I smiled too, half-laughing at my foolishness and her foolishness and all that could be, but probably wouldn’t be.
I imagined taking the yacht and heading for the horizon. I would set white sails, filled with hope.

One day I’ll leave this city, I know, and I won’t be here for the day that I sometimes imagine: when the university can no longer control its expansion, but rises over the graveyard as well, much as the sea will one day rise over Wellington. It won’t be that much of a loss. The dead here aren’t buried deep, but laid in concrete boxes. The land is untouched and wild beneath them; the city clusters on a narrow strip by the sea and is afraid to rise into the hills. At night I hear moreporks, flying in from the scrub and the bush; sometimes during the day, walking towards the university on the path beside the graves, fantails follow me, chasing insects and moths, chasing filmy, gauzy things, limber fans of wings, fluttering a language I don’t understand. They are storm-ragged, wind-tossed, stone-coloured, and when I look at them I know that there is still wilderness out there, hunched beneath the outline of the hills. 

And I know that we are still too young to bury our dead in this place, and I know without looking that when you look out towards the edge of town from the graveyard, pausing in the rotation from flat to university to city, you can see the wind turbine blurring frantically, driven by half-harnessed forces beyond its control, spinning madly over the unmoving bulk of the hills.
