The water was very cold at first, but as he kept swimming he stopped feeling it. When at intervals he would breathe and dive a few metres down, he felt nothing at all. He was buoyed by water, he could see nothing beyond the white blurs of his hands, hear nothing but the shifting movements of the sea. It would be wrong to say that he enjoyed this feeling, but he took a sort of pleasure in it, so as he continued his progress further out he dived down and up every breath, feeling the force of his shoulders moving with each embracing stroke.

It was a sort of forgetting he was after, losing himself in the immense darkness of the ocean and the feel of his muscles pulling taut and releasing, so that there was nothing to think about or believe in, only the water pushing back against his flattened hands. He did not look around when he pushed his head up to breathe, but beyond the sound and the feel and the taste of the waves he could still hear seagulls. He knew he had not gone very far out then, that he could keep swimming a long while yet. He could go out far enough that the waves were not breaking or rough but long swells pushing him up almost unnoticed, and dive deep enough that there was no sound. He remembered the feel of floating and looking down at the seaweed beneath him, watching it seem to slide past him and then back again, slower than a heartbeat, realising slowly with the languid thoughts of someone who doesn't have to care that it was him moving, and the seafloor was fixed and unchanging. He remembered being very young at Curio Bay, one night in the deep south where they had driven past and seen Hectors. Once he was in and through the first gasp of cold, watching those black shapes come close and disappear again, often close enough to reach out and touch and then far away again quick as breathing, he knew that he didn't want to get out. When they were finally gone and he came back to the beach, he was left shivering in such a way that it felt as if his whole body was moving and trapped, convulsing like the waves.

It all, he would sometimes think later -- now, came back to that half-forgotten night perhaps, and the glimpse of something forbidden, a set of experiences he could not hope to understand or reach, and limits he would be punished for transgressing. The curse, the joke, was that it was impossible to know where the limits began, and the only way to find out was to try and reach them. You could wade out into the water, feet safely on the mud and sand, the texture of it on the sensitive skin between your toes where only sand and mud were ever felt, and you could keep wading, feeling your way deeper than you had ever been before, until the dreadful moment where the bottom of the sea dropped away beneath you and there was only silent blackness a long way down to pale things writhing.

I am unsure whether he meant maggot-like things in the mud, his toes struggling to keep him afloat, or -- this is speculation -- those naked bodies seen in medi\aeval depictions of hell. The latter should be unlikely; his vision is a Hellenistic one, the little ship wandering. Or that moment where Ulysses has his ship go down beneath him. He should not have gone that far; the islands left to discover were a very long way away.

He turns back from swimming towards the edge of the world, away from these places where people live towards those scatterings of islands -- grass moving in the relentless wind, penguins and seabirds, shards of pottery and ashes -- where people do not, and he begins to move back towards the beach where his ancestors landed not that long ago. The sand and the driftwood the colour of old bones, wind-smoothed, rain-dimpled. The sea, and the waves rolling in from Antarctica, across all that bleak expanse of ocean.


