 You. Why should I care so much? You were nothing I had not had before, a mind and a body good enough to be interesting. Maybe I don't care; I can sense something of the melodramatic and the self-dramatising in all of this. I am the star in the perpetual story of my own head. I used to have a running monologue of all my actions, the soundtrack underneath the things I never fully engaged with, something always watching. I used to believe that sex would be the answer, something to overwhelm the senses and concentrate all existence into an ecstacy of feeling, the obliteration of the self like a poet or dancer. And it was something, a distraction in a room with a view of the sea. A mattress, but no solace. Moving with eager vitality in the hungover morning, her lips folding over mine firm gentle fierce soft, the curve of her body the only beautiful thing that remained.   It wasn't very much, the feeling, when it came, and you rolled off her, and it was, oh, that is that done then, at least I know now.  Until you discovered that the real feeling came in that moment before and that hour or so after, with the languid feeling from your navel to halfway down your thighs, that pleasantly rubbed feeling with happiness and contentment flowing through you like light long and golden over the streets and the grass in the evenings, the sky a delicate gradient of colours. The curvature of the earth. Lights in houses flicking on, and the taste of rain on the wind.\\
The drive of creatures a very long time dead sustained in me, their chemical rewards my reward. A sating and a dulling of the mind, a desire to sleep driven away by the sudden intimations of mortality. Like the feeling of looking at the underside of your wrist, or someone's fingers cool against the pulsing veins of your neck, feeling the burst and slackening of your heartbeat, reminded that they did as you did, they fucked for the first time with tremulous excitement, and now they are dead.\\
Even then, I was an observer of myself. I have noticed that I cannot look steadily at my own face in a mirror, but I do not know what this means.\\
It is something like the way Dante claims never to have spoken to Beatrice. There is the moment at which language -- intellect, memory -- fails him and he is permitted to look upon the face of God, remembering the words St. Paul could hear but not speak, and does not write. Or the way he refuses to accept that the glorious lady of his mind is dead, that even her bones are mould, and instead finds for her the promise of eternal life, in the imaginings of every reader of books that will be read until people can no longer believe in love, and in the heaven he is capable of believing in and the God of whom he cannot speak.  The woman who gestured to him in  the crowded street will live forever.\\
Horace imagined lasting for as long as the high priest climbs the Capitoline with the silent maiden. The empire is gone; the gods are turned into anthropological exercises; but there is still no tinge of verdigris on the monument more lasting than bronze. Spenser and Shakespeare promise their lovers immortality in a blossoming of words.That; or I'm just trying to replace god and meaning with literature, joining the chain of mostly unread books, changing a few; watching children seeking after love as I did. I blindly grasp for immortality.

It could be possible to find a sort of contentment in that, if I did not believe language distorts and changes. Some confection of words is not me, I claim, and begin to wonder what is. I don't want Shakespeare to be dead, though I care less about his lover. Maybe this is all the truth we can hope for, words and words and words. And lovers' eyes, if I can believe in that. 
 
What did I do after you left? Little to report. Life goes on. I've got drunk, I've read a few books, I've drunk cocktails and beer, flirted with boys, slept chastely again with the girl you know, looked at expensive coats but didn't buy them, brought vegetables at the farmer's market, run out of gin, brought five kilos of pasta for fifteen dollars, avoided that other girl at a party, tried to find the boy from Wainuiomata at one and failed, walked home in a fine white shirt in the rain, wondered how Titus Oates looks so modern in photographs, and Scott so ancient; had odd conversations on Facebook, got annoyed with a flatmate, introduced her to the Velvet Underground, talked with her and the girl you know about how ‘Heroin’ pushes at the edge of ridiculousness but doesn't and that is its mastery, didn't go to lectures, walked along the waterfront in the bright morning and imagined I was in an experimental film, an observer wholly unable to change what I saw, contemplated going travelling, read Hemingway and wanted to go to a cheap Paris -- the same kicked in the gut feeling as the best of them, though of Americans with their symbolism shining out like their teeth and their suffering as something that happens to other people. Thank God for the snow faintly falling, falling faintly on all of us -- and kept on writing at ‘Sex and Literature’ fixing the style and trying to evade the emptiness of it and how ill-thought out it is, read Amis on Nabokov. I need to read \emph{Lolita}, another bloody American (Russian) and so read \emph{The Rehearsal} instead, decided to go and listen to Catton and others read on Tuesday; I had met her briefly, shook her hand at Harry Rickett's book launch and for those five minutes we spoke, the friend I'm with and I feel in love with her, and walking out half-gone on free wine we wonder what gave her prescence such force, I have been assailed by the lingering idea that I have forgotten an important date recently, run out of printing paper and printed on yellow legal paper instead, realised I am driven to write rather than doing it because I am good at it or enjoy it, I have had a shower door fall on my head and break the skin, shaved rigorously and I have seen a photo of D.H. Lawrence and decided I want to grow a beard, assailed by doubt that I could grow a beard, been mobbed with my visiting sister and her friend by seagulls at Island Bay eating fish and chips before going for a pointless walk up a ridge and down again seeing the kelp beds through water, walked past a wedding where all the bridesmaids were dressed in black, put fatty cream on my dry and itching arms, left a window open all night and didn't feel cold, didn't do the washing I needed to do, downloaded Lou Reed \& John Cale \& Nico singing -- badly recorded -- live at the Bataclan, wondered if when he talks about the shade of you Dante means the remnant soul or the poor imitation circumscribed by words, the way he makes Beatrice's life into a pattern of numbers, a poor shade of the force of her prescence. Fastidiously put you out of my mind like the gift middle-aged women have for ignoring the things you say which they believe you should not have said, discussing with perfect manners instead the incidental things, never consciously disapproving but merely disregarding. Watched a flight of three kaka from the sanctuary, thought `in a novel those would have been symbolic' and kept walking (I don't know what they would have been symbolic of) I feel like I should fix that hanging `of'  but I don't, I do not know of what they would have been symbolic. I could live in Berlin or Moscow, perhaps. I drank Stoke IPA with a German professor it has a wonderful complexity to the taste of it a burnt sugar feel; he was with an Italian post-graduate who talked about Mansfield and slid his hands over his face to indicate a mask. I looked at flats for next year; there was one in Tinakori Road but it was too expensive.  I have been woken up by my phone alarm and thrown it out of the window. I have spent a week not going to lectures. I have tidied my room. I have filled an empty gin bottle with coffee and spent a night awake writing an essay about the waste land, calling the poem a brick through a stained-glass window and imagining fragments of colourful glass shattered on concrete and insubstantial feet walking past them in a flow of people never stopping grey and black shoes and trousers, soundless and slowed down from reality, like fish, like shoppers on the Ku’damm.

Perhaps I have missed you, a little.
