There is a house, in the bush, and in the bush there is a swift dark river,and in the swift dark river the pale
trout tug at the lines, fight and struggle, and the river runs on, riverrun, beyond the woods to the empty and the
open farmland, blank as a cow’s eyes, and the swift dark river is slow and stinking, and in the evening masses of
flies hover above it, but no trout rise up to take them.
And the river runs on, riverrun, into gorges and swellings, and plantings of pine, under the high bridges, and
the river runs on, riverrun, turns itself the colour of milky tea, curls like a lock of hair into the sea, riverrun on,
still fresh in the brine, discolouring the horizon, slipping on unseen through the darknesses at the bottom of the
sea, riverrun on, over unseen rocks and monochrome world, to curl around the base of icebergs.
There is a white horse by the dark river - though lower down they would call it a grey. The story wants a white
horse: reality doesn’t. Take your pick. no horse? by the onrunning river? no house?
Should we trust any of what he says? Partly us, mayhap we oughtter. We lie, though, don’t we - you and I -
children of pioneers, jumped from the bridge into the river, swam cold seas, swam out salt on skin, swam out cold
on warmth, lived on the beach, we children, we New Zealanders at the bay - sometimes we lied. Doubtless there
were some of us who never went to the bach - doubts are sound - but memory is not. It changes things, alters
all. The dunes less high, the fish far smaller. Small agonies of childhood forgotten; why remember the ones who
stayed at home, when we were golden children fish-frying on the sand?
Why remember the ones who stayed at home, when we were the ones blazing in the desert, screaming charcoal
in the ruins of the tanks?
Why remember, why remember at all?
The names of the streets: Messines, Allenby; and Maleme. Little pieces of Greece emerging in the south; a hill
with a pine on it, over and over again. We remember because we have to. Memory forces itself upon us; musket
holes in the stones; old men passing by in the streets; names upon names, NZEF 1, NZEF 2, series to infinity,
prussians of the pacific, we are not they, we are they - great-grandfather was at Gallipoli.
Every Anzac day they move through the darkened streets like a river, the men and women and children
flowing to the cemetery by the lake or looking out over the sea, to stand and watch as the sun rises. We that are
left. They do not grow old. A people in motion, drawn by darkness and by memory.
This is how it ends: he huddles in a bed on ANZAC day. He does not get up. He does not wake up.
This is how it ends: he leaves his clothes huddled behind him. He slips into the infinities of the ocean.
This is how it ended: (the pioneers, kiddies!) they came here from over the sea, mothers and babies and fathers
and daughters and broad-shouldered sons, and they were buried in these half-mown paddocks overlooking the
horizon, facing all the way back home. Pioneers and graves. And their grandsons went back over the water, and
were buried there. Or came back home and placed half-withered flowers on the graves. And if we went there now,
not in the darkness of morning but in the bright sunshine, we could find those graves, and put our own flowers on
them. Huddled in the corners. There’s been a hundred years of rain on them, and you can’t make out the names.
Our names but not our names. They could have grown here; now they’ll never make it home, but we won’t even
know where home is.
We tried to make it home, here. We put trout in the infinitely alien rivers. We made hedgerows out of gorse.
But the gorse went mad and feral, and covered the barren hillside in yellow flowers. (Yellow - that’s for eternity.)
Bred here into new things, an odd hybrid.
Gorse and magpies. Quardle oodle aardle wardle. I had an uncle - just which battle? – you’ll see no gorse on
his farm, no magpies. (The farms around it are another matter.) He catches them in a trap. Land on a piece of
dowelling door sweeps you in. Look at the beady eye of the other magpie, trapped, that lured you here. Shiny. A
gumboot on your head - gaze, gaze on Marathon! - the ecstacy of dying, misfiring synapses, feeble moving of
your wings, o untimely death! - a smear of blood and brains in the grass. It grows lustrous and green. Other
magpies fly in over the horizon, a squawking cloud. Perhaps your eyes follow them, your last sight smears of
black fading into blue, your last call their last call. The fading onrushing shrinking growing darkness.
Watch trout when you place them back in the cool green deep green water before the flick drives silver into
onrushing shrinking growing darkness. Imagine the feeling as feeble flickerings flop backwards and forrits be-
comes a smooth swishing of the tail water moving over shining flanks cool as salvation. That feeling I am always
searching for. The slide into comprehension. And then I realise I am drowning.
I should tell you who I am. (I don’t know who I am) But before I sink under the cool waters for the last time,
ask me, ask me quick - brother, who art thou?
Take your pick, take your choice; I’d be happy to be a fish, swimming in the sea. Or a whale - a white whale
sporting in the waters! Killed fish; remember watching the whalers. Tangi, or crying. alone and desolate. Who
does the whale seek? Sing low, sweet chariot. Behind the horizon, under the sea, doom doom doom, there lies
true love, doom doom, for you and for me, doom doom, under the bambrushes, under the sea. . .
